LOOKS LIKE i IS MESSING THINGS UP.  WAS AT 984.

CHECK CEO TO SEE IF HE GOT PROMOTION
WHY ARE THERE 1192 ROWS INSTEAD OF 1190? SOME DUPLICATES ACTIVE?
try https://www.adminer.org/ for he.net mgmt

sql server instructions https://www.r-bloggers.com/setting-up-an-odbc-connection-with-ms-sql-server-on-windows/
harryahlas

For the 24th release: 
	"this read may not be for you"
	put bullets closer to beginning and say you are going to use hrsample data to tie data together etc
	switch knitr to glimpse?
	make sure names/values match what is in post
	UPDATE DATA DISCLAIMER (AND OTHERS) TO USE HRSAMPLE PACKAGE
	send tweet...add images

Validations on LAST RUN
	look at turnover by year
	look at promoations by year
	look at job totals
	look at how long jobs are open
	look at bad employee/mgr turnover
		look to see if new hires seem to happen a lot after 90 days - if so then look at 90 day new hire fill toward beginning of loop
	
WHY DID HEADCOUNT GO DOWN SO MUCH? 190 TMS? MAYBE 45K WASNT ENOUGH TMS? MAKE SURE THEY ARE HIRING NEW PEOPLE.	
WHY IS PROMOTIONS GOING DOWN?
WHY IS INCREASES GOING DOWN?
WHY IS PROMOTIONS USUALLY NA?

Add state/county etc on 03

At some point communicate functions to create SQL databases	
	
Next run quick changes:	
	TERMS LOOK LIKE THEY ARE NOT LOWER FOR 1-2s. Validate turnover rate increase should be up to 10% now
		could it be backwards where 4-5s term more?
	COMPLETE - Check to make sure few people with 1 or 2 reviews are getting promotions (should already be in validations file)
	update all graphics after upload to git
	Look for bad managers
	
COMPLETE - Per hw, add function that will create databases
	1. see if he responds after a few days
	2. reread, reevaluate
	3. suggestion would be to have code that automatically installs mysql, not sure if need to have just an error message or if need to install mariadb
	4. look at nosql and others

Bad manager/bad employee plug
	1. COMPLETE - FIRST need to edit create_deskhistory_row() in 01 functions.  Add an argument that can increase the termination ratio and add that in w/bad mgr, bad employee etc.
	2. COMPLETE - Create bad employee ratio at 10% on variables file
	3. COMPLETE - On create TMs add bad_employee_flag
	4. On create_deskhistory_row() add shortened tenure and increased chance of term if mgr is bad employee or just increased chance of term if TM is bad employee. do this inside function.
		a. Look up manager at start of tenure.
		b. If manager is bad employee or if TM is bad employee switch scale=1000/3.777666 to scale=500/3.777666 (shortens job tenure)
		c. If manager is bad employee then - increase chance of termination by 2
			- multiply f_temp_termination_probability in create_deskhistory_row to * c(2,1))
		c. If job is high turnover then - increase chance of termination by 2 again
			- multiply f_temp_termination_probability in create_deskhistory_row to * c(2,1))
		b. if TM is bad employee then change f_temp_termination_probability in create_deskhistory_row to c(.9,.1)
			- increase chance of termination
		d. add high_turnover_flag to process
			COMPLETE - Add high_turnover_flag to jobs input
			- add job name input into create_deskhistory_row 
			- If job is high turnover then double the turnover chances c(2,1) * c(2,1)
	5. Increase chances of poor review
		a. on 07 add poor_review_plug = 1.  If bad_employee_flag then turn to 2.
		b. on 07, around row 188 add poor_review plug to 1 and 2 ratio.
			
	Set while loop to go shorter

	Remove from employee_info:
		bad_employee_flag
		TMs who are not in deskhistory (except maybe CEO, not sure if he is there)
	
	
Look for errors - see analysis/validations.R
	1. COMPLETE - TMs terminating then rehiring - get an idea of that.  If no rehires then we should add a few
	2. Need to add a check that TMs that left company and came back did not get a review during that period
	3. MOSTLY COMPLETE - Graph review score vs tenure
		a. COMPLETE -review in 2008 < 3 then higher chance of turnover in 2009?
		b. THINK ABOUT THIS LATER - THIS SEEMS OK BUT REVIEW AGAIN, REVIEW THIS IN analysis/validations.R turnover rate for tms with 1-2 vs 3, 4,5
		c. TENURE LOOKS GOOD FOR MINIMUM REVIEW SCORES. Tenure for b above
	4. COMPLETE - Check turnover, movement, and promotions for levels 1-3, maybe deskids 1:30 or so
		a. MOVEMENT NEEDS TO BE FIXED, ADDED TASK BELOW
		b. TURNOVER SEEMS OK
		c. PROMOTION RATES SEEM OK
	5. Only 692 active TMs?  what happened? Why empty seats?  New hires?? 
		a. NEED TO UNDERSTAND WHY, WHERE THIS HAPPENS.  
			HYPOTHESIS: PEOPLE TERMINATE AND NO ONE FILLS
			HYPOTHESIS: Rowskipping is causing this on loop (i + 1)?
	6. COMPLETE - check job by states
	7. COMPLETE - Check promotions - see if people are getting promotions after a 1 or 2 review
	8. COMPLETE - Term rate is low, ~3%

COMPLETE - combine dates and variables scripts

Add ability to every once in a while hire someone up a level.  There is currently no level movement (3->2 etc)
Randomly add desk_ids after term.  and add new ones randomly. (if team has less than 12 tms say)
Have term rates fluctuate by year
Have term rates fluctuate by LOB (maybe this fits with poor performer flag)
Clean up 06 grow desk history

Add termination types:
	Voluntary Resignation: Resignation refers to a termination decided upon by an employee, who for any reason determines they want to end their employment agreement with a given organization.
		Job abandonment:Technically considered voluntary resignation, job abandonment occurs when an employee does not show up for scheduled working hours for a number of consecutive days. In most states, 3 consecutive days of unexcused absences is considered job abandonment.
	End of Temporary Employment: maybe don't worry about this...When a fixed term of temporary employment ends, the contracted temp leaves their role unless they are asked to join the organization permanently.
	Retirement: Employees retire from employment when they reach an age at which they are ready to elave the workforce permanently.
	Involuntary termination:Involuntary termination can include layoffs, closure of business, or individual termination as a result of unsatisfactory performance. (source: https://www.bambee.com/termination/)



Add rehires.  When picking TMs, take a look and maybe 1/20? set rehire rate globally, take that % when picking TM.  Set min 1 year since term.


need to add original hire date back in somewhere? maybe

add EER diagram to r package with function to print

instead of fuzzyjoin in salaryhistory try doing it in mysql to make it faster

increase turnover rate
increase turnover rate if they got a bad review? how to do that?
remove TMs that are not being used
remove poor performer flag from dataset
remove termination flag from deskhistory if date is 2999

allow position numbers and rollups to change, lobs etc

On next TM rerun:	
	Reduce number of legal TMs
		simply update this: data/departments.csv
update org structure
add operations
operations team A, B
virtual 



Nice to have: get employee numbers in order (not critical)
	
add dates.csv import instead of hard coded dates


update state distribution, more tms in CA etc

add TMs that left, have them rejoin later

build function for hierarchy spread?

see add laters on perf reviews
increase number of 2 review scores

lvl01_org,job_name,depth
Operations,Chief Operations Officer,1
Operations,Purchasing Manager,3
Operations,Operations Supervisor,3
Operations,Customer Care Manager,3
Operations,Customer Care Caller,4
Operations,Customer Care Associate,4
Operations,Production Engineer,4
Operations,Production Specialist,4

Compliance,Chief Compliance Officer,1
Compliance,Compliance Official,2
Compliance,Compliance Officer,4
Compliance,Compliance Officer,3
Compliance,Compliance Manager,3
Compliance,Risk Associate,4
Compliance,Auditor,4

Finance,Chief Financial Officer,1
Finance,Budget Analyst,4
Finance,Finance Manager,3
Finance,Accounting Officer,3

Sales,Sales Manager,3
Sales,Relationship Manager,4
Sales,Sales Associate,4
Sales,Salesperson,4
Sales,Financial Consultant,4

Technology,Information Architect,3
Technology,Information Security Officer,3
Technology,Information Security Specialist,4
Technology,Developer,4

Strategy,Chief Administration Officer,2
Strategy,Strategy Manager,3
Strategy,Strategy Consultant,4

Human Resources,Personnel Leader,1
Human Resources,Business Partner Leader,3
Human Resources,Consultant,4
Human Resources,Business Partner,4
Legal,Chief Legal Officer,1
Legal,Counsel,2
Legal,Attorney,3
Legal,Paralegal,4
